Restructuring and addition to permissions docs (#3270)
hashicorp/boundary: website/content/docs/concepts/security/permissions/grants.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Grant Strings
description: |-
  Grant Strings
---

# Grant Strings

In Boundary, grants are a set of permissions that you give to the principals, or 
[users](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/users) and [groups](/boundary/docs/concepts/domain-model/groups), 
of a specific role defined in a specific scope.

When you write grant strings, you should consider the following questions:

- Which specific scope should these permissions be applied to?
- Which specific role should have these permissions?
- Which specific resources should this grant apply to?
- What resource types should this apply to?
- What kinds of actions should the principals (users and groups) be able to perform?

Grant strings can be composed of up to 4 parts: 
- [ID](#id)
- [Type](#type)
- [Actions](#actions)

> - [Output Fields](#output-fields)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Output fields](#output-fields)
```

> Selectors are used to indicate which resources on which the grant should apply,
> using specific IDs or wildcard IDs and type selectors. There are currently two types of selectors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use selectors to indicate which resources the grant should apply to.
Selectors can be specific IDs or wildcard IDs and type selectors. There are currently two types of selectors:
```

- An `id` field that indicates a specific resource or a wildcard to match all

- A `type` field that indicates a specific resource type or a wildcard to match

>   all; this might also be used to grant permissions on collections of resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  all; it might also be used to grant permissions on collections of resources
```

Additionally, there are two types of assigned permissions:

> - An `actions` field indicating which actions to allow the client to perform on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An `actions` field indicates which actions to allow the client to perform on
```

  the resources matched by `id` and `type`

> - An `output_fields` field indicating which top-level fields to return in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An `output_fields` field indicates which top-level fields to return in the
```

  response

The format of a full grant string is:

- &#32; `id=<id>;type=<type>;actions=<action-list>;output_fields=<fields-list>`

> Grant [examples](#common-grant-examples) can be found at the bottom of this page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find grant [examples](#common-grant-examples) at the bottom of this page.
```

> ~> **Note:** `output_fields` is omitted in most examples for brevity but are valid
> in all of them. It is also valid in each case to omit `actions` and specify
> _only_ `output_fields`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Note>
`output_fields` is omitted in most examples for brevity, but they are valid
in all of them. It is also valid in each case to omit `actions` and specify
_only_ `output_fields`.
</Note>
```

Reviewer: There is a new format for these admonitions.

## ID

The **ID** is the specific resource that you select for the grant.
You can use a [wildcard](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/advanced#wildcard) (*) to include all resources of the type and scope.
Each grant string supports only 1 ID or a wildcard. By specifying a single ID, the top-level resource 

> is "pinned", meaning the permissions will only apply to that resource and subordinate resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is "pinned", meaning the permissions only apply to that resource and any subordinate resources.
```

> The examples of valid IDs are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some examples of valid IDs are:
```

You can use a [wildcard](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/advanced#wildcard) (*) to 
include all resource types in the scope.
Each grant string supports only 1 type or a wildcard.

Some commonly used types are:

- &#32; `*` (all)
- &#32; `session`
- &#32; `target`
- &#32; `user`
- &#32; `worker`

For a full list of types, see the [Resource Table](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/resource-table).

## Actions

**Actions** convey the ability to perform some action against a resource or collection.
You can select which actions you want to apply to a grant.
You can also use a [wildcard](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/permission-grant-formats#wildcard-id) to include all valid actions.
Each grant string can include one or more comma separated actions.
Some commonly used actions include:

- &#32; `*` (all)
- &#32; `list`
- &#32; `create`
- &#32; `read`
- &#32; `update`
- &#32; `delete`

To learn more about actions, see [advanced actions](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/advanced#advanced-actions).
For a full list of actions, see the [Resource Table](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/resource-table).

> ## Output Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Output fields
```

**Output fields** are top-level fields that are returned in the response. Output fields
are **optional** and not commonly used.

Examples of valid output fields include:

- &#32; `none`
- &#32; `id`
- &#32; `name`
- &#32; `description`

To learn more about output fields, see [output fields](/boundary/docs/concepts/security/permissions/advanced#output-fields)

> ## Common Grant Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common grant examples
```

The following are examples of commonly used grant strings for specific roles and scopes.

> **All Actions** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**All actions** 
```

This grant string allows users to perform any actions on any resources in the scope:

- &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=*`

> **View All** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**View all** 
```

This grant string allows users to list and read any resources in the scope:

- &#32; `id=*;type=*;actions=read,list`

> **View Targets Only** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**View targets only** 
```

This **project scope** grant string allows users to list and read any targets in the specific project.
This example is only applicable to project scopes because targets can only exist inside a project:

- &#32; `id=*;type=target;actions=read,list`

> **Connect To Any Target**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Connect to any target**
```

This **project scope** grant string allows users to list, read, and connect to any targets in a specific project.
In addition, these grants allow the user to list, read, and cancel any sessions initiated by the same user.
This example is only applicable to project scopes, since targets can only exist in a project:

- &#32; `id=*;type=target;actions=list,read,authorize-session`
- &#32; `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`

> **Connect To A Specific Target** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Connect to a specific target** 
```

This **project scope** grant string allows users to list, read, and connect to a specific target.
In addition, these grants let users list, read, and cancel any sessions initiated by the same user.
If you want to include several specific targets, you can duplicate the first grant string using the respective IDs of those targets.
This example is only applicable to project scopes, since targets can only exist in a project:

- &#32; `id=<target-id>;actions=read,authorize-session`
- &#32; `type=target;actions=list`
- &#32; `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`

<Note>
There is a known issue that affects the [Project] Connect To A Specific Target grant strings.
Currently, the grants do not list any defined targets in the CLI or UI.
However, you are still able to use this set of grants to connect to a target using the CLI.
</Note>

> ## General Grant Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## General grant examples
```

The following are examples of general grant strings for any scope:

> **Manage All Of 1 Resource Type**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Manage all of 1 resource type**
```

- &#32; `id=*;type=<resource-type>;actions=*`

> **View All Of 1 Resource Type**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**View all of 1 resource type**
```

- &#32; `id=*;type=<resource-type>;actions=list,read`

> **Manage A Specific Resource IItem**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Manage a specific resource item**
```

- &#32; `type=<resource-type>;actions=list`
- &#32; `id=<resource-id>;actions=*`

> **View A Specific Resource Item**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**View a specific resource item**
```

- &#32; `id=*;type=target;actions=read,list`

**Connect to any target**

This **project scope** grant string allows users to list, read, and connect to any targets in a specific project.
In addition, these grants allow the user to list, read, and cancel any sessions initiated by the same user.
This example is only applicable to project scopes, since targets can only exist in a project:

- &#32; `id=*;type=target;actions=list,read,authorize-session`
- &#32; `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`

**Connect to a specific target** 

This **project scope** grant string allows users to list, read, and connect to a specific target.
In addition, these grants let users list, read, and cancel any sessions initiated by the same user.
If you want to include several specific targets, you can duplicate the first grant string using the respective IDs of those targets.
This example is only applicable to project scopes, since targets can only exist in a project:

- &#32; `id=<target-id>;actions=read,authorize-session`
- &#32; `type=target;actions=list`
- &#32; `id=*;type=session;actions=read:self,cancel:self,list`

> 
> <Note>
> There is a known issue that affects the [Project] Connect To A Specific Target grant strings.
> Currently, the grants do not list any defined targets in the CLI or UI.
> However, you are still able to use this set of grants to connect to a target using the CLI.
> </Note>

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed in 0.13!
